Final: Anamorphic Agency (simplified)
==========
*Instructions: Install openFrameworks on your computer if you don't already have it. move the openFrameworks sketch: OSCSend_AudioInput_LightSensor, to openFrameworks > apps > myApps, then run the sketch. While the sketch is running play the Unity scene: scene_1.
*This is a computer only version of my thesis, Anamorphic Agency where the user will not need the external sensors for the experience.  Since my thesis could only be experienced using an Oculus Rift Headset and a Neurosky biofeedback sensor, I wanted to make an experience that more users can play with on their computers.  Removing the headset, replaced the head movement with a smooth mouse look script, and adjusted it for the user to look around if he/she were lying on a bed with limited control and a certain amount of drifting, so the user feels disoriented to maintain the feelings evoked in sleep paralysis.  Then I had to figure out how I could use user’s feedback without using a biofeedback sensor, so I thought of the sensors on the compute and how the could be accessed through openFrameworks.  After some fidgeting and changing components around, I finally settled on the light intensity mapped to the computer’s ambient light sensor, and the size of the spot light mapped to the incoming sound on the microphone.  I modeled the demon, sleeper, and the bed; the rest of the environment I had put together with textures from the asset store.  In the experience, the user is a person sleeping who is experience sleep paralysis nightmare. As the sleeper looks around with the mouse, the only source of light originates from the sleepers point of view.  Instinct for some people after experiencing such and event would be to turn on the light, so the user would need to turn on a light next to their computer’s light sensor to increase the intensity.  During some of my experiences of sleep paralysis I have attempted yelling at the demon to go away, so I thought it would be interesting to map the size of the spot light to sound, and see how the user may interact with it.  There is a raycast script on the user’s gaze, so the user must face the demon to destroy it.  The demons instantiate in the room as time passes to confuse the user of where to look.  
*This project was inspired by the shadows in Plato’s Allegory of the Cave, and stems off of the reality that humans see is based off of the reality they have created in their consciousness.  The Sleeper in this project represents the mental prison of sleep paralysis created by the Sleeper’s psyche.  The Sleeper is similar to the men in the cave that only see the shadows and do not believe in the real world that the escaped prisoner tells them about; they only believe in the shadow world in front of them.  The escaped prisoner who represents the philosopher has agency, as the user has agency in this project, and has the power to interact in this world and get rid of the demons. As human’s are fallible, so are their dreams. Although the original inspiration of this idea came from Plato, it does contradict his philosophy because this project gives the user agency to regain control. It becomes more about being in the world, and how the user interacts with the world in front of them with disorienting controls, and demons to defeat.  Concluding with the user in a scenario where he/she must decipher how to give light to the room and facing one’s fear by facing the demon to destroy it.
